MISC/KBxSOPHFINALeval.md, before:

---
title:   Final self evals
context: NUV201
author:  Huxley
source:  #index
---

#ret  #disorganized #incomplete

---




## ISOS
1) Think back on the three different projects you did this term: your history of science presentation, story of science, and ethical issues roundtable. Which are you proudest of, and why?
	1) I am most proud of our history of science presentation. We decided to do something different, something completely out of all of our comfort zones, and we pulled it off.  I learned a lot, got an entirely new experience, and people in class loved it.

2) Is there a habit of learning/habit of mind/student skill that this term in ISOS made you want to improve in yourself (e.g. procrastination, using work periods, participating in discussion, focusing on class, note-taking, chunking out projects)? (Be kind to yourself! It’s been a hard year, and learning/growing as a scholar is a life-long process.) 
	1) Organizing outside of class meeting time and group work is especially hard in the purely digital world. This is a skill that is new to me, but I expect to have to use a lot more in our increasingly technological reality. Thus, I would like to improve it.

3) How might you apply what you learned in ISOS this year (considering both fall and spring) to being a scientist in your science classes or to using scientific information to make informed choices as a citizen?
	1) Learning about the extent of p-hacking was quite startling for me. I will definitely take it into account when ingesting scientific information in the future.
	
--- 

## Japanese
Please reflect on your learning this past semester in the following areas.  Write a few sentences for each question (#1-3).  You don’t have to answer all the sub-questions; they are just suggestions.  Please answer in English.

1) Highlights

What were some of the highlights for you in Japanese this semester?  What work are you most proud of?  What have you learned this semester?  How have you grown this semester, either academically or personally?

The work I was most proud of this semester was my Travel Project on Beppu. I felt like I could actually use Japanese to communicate my research and knowledge. Sometimes in language classes it's easy to get caught up in individual forms or sentence structures; during the Travel Project I got a chance to take a step back and use everything I've learned this semester together.

2) Challenges

What area(s) challenged you the most this semester?  How did you deal with these challenges?  What can you do to improve in these areas?  What can I do to help you improve?

One of the most challenging projects for me this semester was the Doshisha Pen Pal E-mail assignment. It felt like one of the first "real world" assignments we did this year. To improve, I want to start using Japanese more in daily life. 

3) Goals

What were your goals for this semester?  What are your goals for next semester?  What topics or skills do you want to study next semester?  What are your long-term goals in Japanese?  How can I help you reach those goals?


My goal this semester was to try and become more 'fluent,' in the sense that the barrier between meaning and sentence in Japanese is reduced. I definitely feel like I achieved this, but I also feel like I increased the complexity of the sentences, and thus meaning, I am able to communicate. For next semester, I want to get better at speaking consistently.



## Biology


1) Reflect on the biology concepts you've learned about this school year, from the structure and function of macromolecules to evolution and everything in between. Write a brief paragraph that tries to weave your biology learning into a coherent whole (i.e. look for connections between the main concepts we explored and weave them together in a way that’s meaningful to you).
	1) We started off by reviewing the central dogma and talking about how structure — and lack thereof — relates to function. We then moved on to talking about cell replication with meiosis and mitosis, and the replication of DNA which encodes the earlier analyzed macromolecules. Following from this, we went to a broader level and analyzed mutations as well as alleles and inheritance. We learned about the different types of mutations, and different inheritance patterns. We then went even more abstract, and talked about genetics and the concept of race. For our penultiment learning, we did both a high and low level of abstraction project, combining earlier learnings. We analyzed SNP, which by definition are only mutations of a single nucleotide, yet have massive abstract implications. We dived into the lab side of SNP by learning about PCR



central dogma structure function
meois and genetic inheretence
engaging w/ research
genetics and race
SNP, PCRR 
gel electrophoresis

2) Earlier in the term, you engaged deeply with one particular scientific paper. More recently, you reviewed many more papers for your SNP project. Reflect on how your ability to engage with the scientific literature has evolved over the course of the term: 

-   Describe the progress you’ve made so far. 
-   Detail the challenges you’re experiencing. 
-   Brainstorm what you could do to keep improving.

Commit message:

b15680: MISC/KBxSOPHFINALeval.html,MISC/KBxSOPHFINALeval.latex MISC/KBxSOPHFINALeval.md,MISC/KBxSOPHFINALeval.pdf backtrack.html,buildID.txt indxtable.html,recent_errors.md recent_errors.txt,tags.html (automated compilation 15680)

MISC/KBxSOPHFINALeval.md, after:

---
title:   Final self evals
context: NUV201
author:  Huxley
source:  #index
---

#ret  #disorganized #incomplete

---




## ISOS
1) Think back on the three different projects you did this term: your history of science presentation, story of science, and ethical issues roundtable. Which are you proudest of, and why?
	1) I am most proud of our history of science presentation. We decided to do something different, something completely out of all of our comfort zones, and we pulled it off.  I learned a lot, got an entirely new experience, and people in class loved it.

2) Is there a habit of learning/habit of mind/student skill that this term in ISOS made you want to improve in yourself (e.g. procrastination, using work periods, participating in discussion, focusing on class, note-taking, chunking out projects)? (Be kind to yourself! It’s been a hard year, and learning/growing as a scholar is a life-long process.) 
	1) Organizing outside of class meeting time and group work is especially hard in the purely digital world. This is a skill that is new to me, but I expect to have to use a lot more in our increasingly technological reality. Thus, I would like to improve it.

3) How might you apply what you learned in ISOS this year (considering both fall and spring) to being a scientist in your science classes or to using scientific information to make informed choices as a citizen?
	1) Learning about the extent of p-hacking was quite startling for me. I will definitely take it into account when ingesting scientific information in the future.
	
--- 

## Japanese
Please reflect on your learning this past semester in the following areas.  Write a few sentences for each question (#1-3).  You don’t have to answer all the sub-questions; they are just suggestions.  Please answer in English.

1) Highlights

What were some of the highlights for you in Japanese this semester?  What work are you most proud of?  What have you learned this semester?  How have you grown this semester, either academically or personally?

The work I was most proud of this semester was my Travel Project on Beppu. I felt like I could actually use Japanese to communicate my research and knowledge. Sometimes in language classes it's easy to get caught up in individual forms or sentence structures; during the Travel Project I got a chance to take a step back and use everything I've learned this semester together.

2) Challenges

What area(s) challenged you the most this semester?  How did you deal with these challenges?  What can you do to improve in these areas?  What can I do to help you improve?

One of the most challenging projects for me this semester was the Doshisha Pen Pal E-mail assignment. It felt like one of the first "real world" assignments we did this year. To improve, I want to start using Japanese more in daily life. 

3) Goals

What were your goals for this semester?  What are your goals for next semester?  What topics or skills do you want to study next semester?  What are your long-term goals in Japanese?  How can I help you reach those goals?


My goal this semester was to try and become more 'fluent,' in the sense that the barrier between meaning and sentence in Japanese is reduced. I definitely feel like I achieved this, but I also feel like I increased the complexity of the sentences, and thus meaning, I am able to communicate. For next semester, I want to get better at speaking consistently.



## Biology


1) Reflect on the biology concepts you've learned about this school year, from the structure and function of macromolecules to evolution and everything in between. Write a brief paragraph that tries to weave your biology learning into a coherent whole (i.e. look for connections between the main concepts we explored and weave them together in a way that’s meaningful to you).
	1) We started off by reviewing the central dogma and talking about how structure — and lack thereof — relates to function. We then moved on to talking about cell replication with meiosis and mitosis, and the replication of DNA which encodes the earlier analyzed macromolecules. Following from this, we went to a broader level and analyzed mutations as well as alleles and inheritance. We learned about the different types of mutations, and different inheritance patterns. We then went even more abstract, and talked about genetics and the concept of race. For our penultimate learning, we did both a high and low level of abstraction project, combining earlier learnings. We analyzed SNP, which by definition are only mutations of a single nucleotide, yet have massive abstract implications. We dived into the lab side of SNP by learning about PCR and gel electrophoresis. We finally talked about evolution, then went back and used our knowledge of evolution to further analyze our SNP. We started off small, learned about more and more abstract concepts, then finished it all off with a project that requires both deep and abstract analysis.

2) Earlier in the term, you engaged deeply with one particular scientific paper. More recently, you reviewed many more papers for your SNP project. Reflect on how your ability to engage with the scientific literature has evolved over the course of the term: 

-   Describe the progress you’ve made so far. 
	- I've gotten much better at telling if an article is not going to be useful to me earlier in the reading process. This is a skill that comes up a lot more when doing research on an obscure / not well understood area. Through the semester, the process of research to knowledge got a lot faster, even if my actual reading speed of any given article didn't improve drastically.

-   Detail the challenges you’re experiencing. 
	-   A challenge with this most recent research project was differentiating between facts and speculation, and dealing with multiple sources of conflicting information. The mix between facts and speculation was much less clear than I was used to, and even that which seemed like facts were rebutted in other papers. I ended up being very conservative in my claims, and trying to point out what was speculative very clearly.
	-   Another large challenge was dealing with the many paywalls when doing research, which I do not have a solution for yet.

-   Brainstorm what you could do to keep improving.
	-   Of course, though not an interesting answer, practicing will help me improve. In fact, it already has. More specifically, I want to get better at tailoring my search engine searches to the information I want to get. I also found that crawling through linked sources of helpful articles often led to more helpful articles.
