recent_errors.md, before:

        Log for attempt at Wed May 26 02:51:45 PM PDT 2021 (13681)
        Wed May 26 02:51:45 PM PDT 2021 Converting 2020BIO101/KBhBIO101Rosalind.md...

kpathsea: Running mktextfm HelveticaNeue
/usr/share/texmf-dist/web2c/mktexnam: Could not map source abbreviation H for HelveticaNeue.
/usr/share/texmf-dist/web2c/mktexnam: Need to update /usr/share/texmf-dist/fonts/map/fontname/special.map?
mktextfm: Running mf-nowin -progname=mf \mode:=ljfour; mag:=1; ; nonstopmode; input HelveticaNeue
This is METAFONT, Version 2.7182818 (TeX Live 2020/Arch Linux) (preloaded base=mf)

kpathsea: Running mktexmf HelveticaNeue

! I can't find file `HelveticaNeue'.
<*> ... mag:=1; ; nonstopmode; input HelveticaNeue
                                                  
Please type another input file name
! Emergency stop.
<*> ... mag:=1; ; nonstopmode; input HelveticaNeue
                                                  
Transcript written on mfput.log.
grep: HelveticaNeue.log: No such file or directory
mktextfm: `mf-nowin -progname=mf \mode:=ljfour; mag:=1; ; nonstopmode; input HelveticaNeue' failed to make HelveticaNeue.tfm.
kpathsea: Appending font creation commands to missfont.log.

kpathsea: Running mktextfm HelveticaNeue
/usr/share/texmf-dist/web2c/mktexnam: Could not map source abbreviation H for HelveticaNeue.
/usr/share/texmf-dist/web2c/mktexnam: Need to update /usr/share/texmf-dist/fonts/map/fontname/special.map?
mktextfm: Running mf-nowin -progname=mf \mode:=ljfour; mag:=1; ; nonstopmode; input HelveticaNeue
This is METAFONT, Version 2.7182818 (TeX Live 2020/Arch Linux) (preloaded base=mf)

kpathsea: Running mktexmf HelveticaNeue

! I can't find file `HelveticaNeue'.
<*> ... mag:=1; ; nonstopmode; input HelveticaNeue
                                                  
Please type another input file name
! Emergency stop.
<*> ... mag:=1; ; nonstopmode; input HelveticaNeue
                                                  
Transcript written on mfput.log.
grep: HelveticaNeue.log: No such file or directory
mktextfm: `mf-nowin -progname=mf \mode:=ljfour; mag:=1; ; nonstopmode; input HelveticaNeue' failed to make HelveticaNeue.tfm.
kpathsea: Appending font creation commands to missfont.log.
Error producing PDF.
! Package fontspec Error: The font "HelveticaNeue" cannot be found.

For immediate help type H <return>.
 ...                                              
                                                  
l.90 \newfontfamily

Commit message:

b13682: 21math401/KBe21math401retSurfaceAreaOfSphere.org (automated compilation 13682)

recent_errors.md, after:

        Log for attempt at Wed May 26 07:26:20 PM PDT 2021 (13682)
        Wed May 26 07:26:20 PM PDT 2021 Converting 21math401/KBe21math401retSurfaceAreaOfSphere.org...

kpathsea: Running mktextfm HelveticaNeue
/usr/share/texmf-dist/web2c/mktexnam: Could not map source abbreviation H for HelveticaNeue.
/usr/share/texmf-dist/web2c/mktexnam: Need to update /usr/share/texmf-dist/fonts/map/fontname/special.map?
mktextfm: Running mf-nowin -progname=mf \mode:=ljfour; mag:=1; ; nonstopmode; input HelveticaNeue
This is METAFONT, Version 2.7182818 (TeX Live 2020/Arch Linux) (preloaded base=mf)

kpathsea: Running mktexmf HelveticaNeue

! I can't find file `HelveticaNeue'.
<*> ... mag:=1; ; nonstopmode; input HelveticaNeue
                                                  
Please type another input file name
! Emergency stop.
<*> ... mag:=1; ; nonstopmode; input HelveticaNeue
                                                  
Transcript written on mfput.log.
grep: HelveticaNeue.log: No such file or directory
mktextfm: `mf-nowin -progname=mf \mode:=ljfour; mag:=1; ; nonstopmode; input HelveticaNeue' failed to make HelveticaNeue.tfm.
kpathsea: Appending font creation commands to missfont.log.

kpathsea: Running mktextfm HelveticaNeue
/usr/share/texmf-dist/web2c/mktexnam: Could not map source abbreviation H for HelveticaNeue.
/usr/share/texmf-dist/web2c/mktexnam: Need to update /usr/share/texmf-dist/fonts/map/fontname/special.map?
mktextfm: Running mf-nowin -progname=mf \mode:=ljfour; mag:=1; ; nonstopmode; input HelveticaNeue
This is METAFONT, Version 2.7182818 (TeX Live 2020/Arch Linux) (preloaded base=mf)

kpathsea: Running mktexmf HelveticaNeue

! I can't find file `HelveticaNeue'.
<*> ... mag:=1; ; nonstopmode; input HelveticaNeue
                                                  
Please type another input file name
! Emergency stop.
<*> ... mag:=1; ; nonstopmode; input HelveticaNeue
                                                  
Transcript written on mfput.log.
grep: HelveticaNeue.log: No such file or directory
mktextfm: `mf-nowin -progname=mf \mode:=ljfour; mag:=1; ; nonstopmode; input HelveticaNeue' failed to make HelveticaNeue.tfm.
kpathsea: Appending font creation commands to missfont.log.
Error producing PDF.
! Package fontspec Error: The font "HelveticaNeue" cannot be found.

For immediate help type H <return>.
 ...                                              
                                                  
l.90 \newfontfamily
