21hist301/KBxPilgrimsAndPuritans.md, before:

---
title:   Pilgrims and Puritans
context: HIST301
author:  Huxley Marvit
source:  #21hist301/KBHIST301MasterIndex
---

#flo #ref #hw #reading

---

# first note back. let's make it work.

**so, pilgrims.**

- puritans idea of american paradise as the fufillment of the scripture prophecy 
- arrived in first half of 17th century
- they created the story or america which had the utopian vision based on theology
- considerd the 'first americans'
	- later became the full-fledged notion of american exceptionalism 
	- contrasted to virginia, who were seen as adventurers 
		- virginians came for material gain whereas puritans came for spiritual reasons
			- religous refugess from england
- though of as morally superior
- despite dissenting from the church of england theyndenied those who did not conform to their own doctrines the same freedoms

### Who were the puritans?

two groups of english dissenters based on religion inspired by the protestant [[KBhHIST201CounterReformation]] and calvinism

```ad-def 
**calvinism**
Calvinism (also called the **Reformed tradition** or Reformed Protestantism) is a major branch of Protestantism that follows the theological tradition and forms of Christian practice set down by John Calvin and other Reformation-era theologians. It emphasises the sovereignty of God and the authority of the Bible.
```

considered america their promised land

**Pilgrims and Puritans are generally used synonymously**
demonstates the similarities between the two groups

#### The difference
- **pilgrims**
	- reached american in 1620 on the mayflower
	- granted land and support from the virginia company, but they missed virginia! 
		- could have been purposeful
	- founded plymouth
	- created a 2.5k com focus life in a few years
- **Puritans**
	- term was originally derogatory
	- arrived in 1630 on the arbella and such
	- granted right to settle bu Charles I
	- founded boston!
- formed distinct communites but interacted
- merged into Massachusetts bay in 1691


### The myth

like the jews escaping from egypt
generalization: humans suffering under slavery, god has sympathy, divine providence, journey and promised land, god given entitlement 
```ad-def
p
also constitutes a foundation myth of the US

Commit message:

b19744: 21MATH530/KBx1CReflection 21MATH530/KBxLinAlgMasterIndex 21hist301/KBxPilgrimsAndPuritans)

21hist301/KBxPilgrimsAndPuritans.md, after:

---
title:   Pilgrims and Puritans
context: HIST301
author:  Huxley Marvit
source:  #21hist301/KBHIST301MasterIndex
---

#flo #ref #hw #reading

---

# first note back. let's make it work.

**so, pilgrims.**

- puritans idea of american paradise as the fufillment of the scripture prophecy 
- arrived in first half of 17th century
- they created the story or america which had the utopian vision based on theology
- considerd the 'first americans'
	- later became the full-fledged notion of american exceptionalism 
	- contrasted to virginia, who were seen as adventurers 
		- virginians came for material gain whereas puritans came for spiritual reasons
			- religous refugess from england
- though of as morally superior
- despite dissenting from the church of england theyndenied those who did not conform to their own doctrines the same freedoms

### Who were the puritans?

two groups of english dissenters based on religion inspired by the protestant [[KBhHIST201CounterReformation]] and calvinism

```ad-def 
**calvinism**
Calvinism (also called the **Reformed tradition** or Reformed Protestantism) is a major branch of Protestantism that follows the theological tradition and forms of Christian practice set down by John Calvin and other Reformation-era theologians. It emphasises the sovereignty of God and the authority of the Bible.
```

considered america their promised land

**Pilgrims and Puritans are generally used synonymously**
demonstates the similarities between the two groups

#### The difference
- **pilgrims**
	- reached american in 1620 on the mayflower
	- granted land and support from the virginia company, but they missed virginia! 
		- could have been purposeful
	- founded plymouth
	- created a 2.5k com focus life in a few years
	- not a lot of historians
- **Puritans**
	- term was originally derogatory
	- arrived in 1630 on the arbella and such
	- granted right to settle bu Charles I
	- founded boston!
	- lotta historians
- formed distinct communites but interacted
- merged into Massachusetts bay in 1691


### The myth

like the jews escaping from egypt
generalization: humans suffering under slavery, god has sympathy, divine providence, journey and promised land, god given entitlement 
```ad-def
**prov·i·dence**

/ˈprävədəns/

_noun_
1.  the protective care of God or of nature as a spiritual power.
    *"they found their trust in divine providence to be a source of comfort"*
```
also constitutes a foundation myth of the US


```ad-abstract
"the myths that made america"
what it's really about, not the pilgrims and puritans.
```

america has been imagined in Europe as a utopia since the renaissance? 
thus, obvi place to start a utopian society during the start of the 17th century

the myth has led to idealized accounts of US hist
the trope of the promised land has been used as a vehicle for radical cultural dissent


### US as utopia

US was thought of as utopian
mainly in a religous context
switched from finding a utopia to making a utopia
yatta yatta, bunch of diff groups

pilgrims and puritans were the most symbolically powerful

oh jeez..

[[KBdPilgrimsPuritans]]
