---
title:  Day one 
course: HIST201 
author: Huxley Marvit
source: #index
---

---
`make sure to have arta rank our heights!`
## How to Read
- Focus on big picture
	- **Don't** worry about remembering dates
	- **Do** Focus on Trends, patterns, main points.


## The Modern World
---
#### Scope 
- To broad to focus on all
	- Roughly 1500
	- End at the cold war
	- Four regions hold most of the people
		- Europe, East Asia, South Asia, Middle East.

`INTERACTION BETWEEN STATES`

### What we will cover
1. Hegemony 
2. Balance of power -> global order 
3. Ideologies and tech 
4. Disruption of balance, WW1 aftermath 
5. Disruption of balance part two, barley boogalo. Ft. Fascism, Communism, WW2. 
6. Bipolar world, cold war


### Key Skills

- General and specific causes of events 
- Using + evaluating evidence
- construct arguments 
- Learn to write well
- {Some other stuff}



## Freewrite time?!?
> What are the top six most powerful countries in the world? 
> *Arta*

`define power as: influence over other countries ` - important, according to arta
^ *in relation to other countries* 

military power not as important anymore

1. China -> Huge amount of people, resources, millitary. Govermental system allows for easy control and progress. Ie. building a hospital in three days. + trade leverage 
2. North Korea. -> Power by insanity. Nixon (I think) once made the argument that other countries will be more wary / respect the wishes of countries with people in office that are *crazy*, because they will do anything. Kimmy is that crazy man. 
3. USA -> Lots of resources, I don't really know how we compare as I am infested with propaganda. 
4. India. Massive amount of people, growing insanely quickly. Will be much more powerful very soon. 
5. Russia -> Idrk, look at the election? Powerful meddling 

***nukes make things weird***













