---
title: What is Biology (biOLGO,gee)
author: Houjun Liu
course: BIO201
source: #index
---

So, let's begin with a very easy concept (sarcasm)

# What is life?
**When is someone dead?**

> This is hard, so let's instead think about what a child?

Biological Female + Sperm + relative safety + Lot's of Peanut Butter => Child.

But! We know that:

* The person does not consciously go "let's create a liver", for instance
* Instead… She is following **self organization rules**
    * Pieces self organize
    * Put some chemistry into some matter, and it will organize to create a human being
* Theses **self organization rules** does not…
    * Need to be taught
    * Is inate to system
    * Is on both the micro and macro level
        * Micro => Cells functioning
        * Macro => Flock of birds

## Self Organization Rules
Simple structures causes intricate, complicated behavior.

For instance, here's a…

### Flying Vee
1. Bird, if you see another bird < 6ft, follow it
2. Bird, if who you follow veers > 30º, stop following it
3. Bird, if you follow a bird, follow on the side
4. Bird, make sure you are > 10ft from any other bird you are following

And, you get a [flying Vee shape (if you click that option)](https://netlogoweb.org)!

**The information to construct a flying Vee exists bottom-up, in EVERY UNIT of the Vee*

### Units that comprise life
* Proteans
* Carbohydrates
* Nucleacli Acids
* Lipids

Each piece of the life units could, self-assembling, create larger units that self-organize.

### The Core Rule of Biology
> Things that are attracted, come together

Think!

* DNAs! (A-G/T-C)
* Cell receptors!
* Drugs!
* Reproduction!

Very often, these are resulted from chemical charges.
**Simple charge differences may result massive effects** — a charge difference in one molecule could start an opioid crisis.
 
 
## Types of Biology
* Translational
* Academic
* Textbook
* Education

### Textbook Biology
* Journaled and formalized
* "Sum total of bio knowledge"

### Academic Biology
* Scientific pursue of information
* Synthesis and discovery of information

### Translational Biology
* Research with outcome in mine
* Trying to solve "a problem"

### Educational Biology
* Sharing and communicating biology
* Luke De :heart: Edu Biology 
* Like…
    * Convincing people to have vaccines
    * Convincing mask wearing

Think: **how would I share this information** 