21math401/_KBe21math401retCrossSectionSolidExample.md, before:

---
author: Albert Huang
date: 11 June 2021
title: "Final Project B: Volume of a Solid with Known Cross Section"
---

```{=org}
#+CONTEXT: 21math401
```
I chose to use Reigon B (bounded by x=0, y=sqrt(x), and x=9) and the
semicircle as my cross section. The integral to calculate the volume is
`\color{NavyBlue}`{=latex}the integral of
`\color{OliveGreen}`{=latex}the area of `\color{Melon}`{=latex}each
slice`\color{Black}`{=latex}.

$$\begin{aligned}
 &\textcolor{NavyBlue}{\int_{0}^{9}} \textcolor{OliveGreen}{\pi} \textcolor{Melon}{r_x} \textcolor{OliveGreen}{^2} \textcolor{NavyBlue}{dx}\\
 =&\textcolor{NavyBlue}{\int_{0}^{9}} \textcolor{OliveGreen}{\pi}  \textcolor{Melon}{\left(\frac{\sqrt{x}}{2}\right)}\textcolor{OliveGreen}{^2} \textcolor{NavyBlue}{dx}\\
 =& \frac{\pi}{4}  \int_{0}^{9} x dx\\
 =& \frac{\pi}{8} 9^2\\
 =& \boxed{\frac{81\pi}{8}}\\
\end{aligned}$$

This value is corroborated to four decimal points using the slice
generator, seen here:

![](KBe21math401retCrossSectionSolidFinalB.png)

Commit message:

b14336: 21math401/KBe21math401retCrossSectionSolidExample.html,21math401/KBe21math401retCrossSectionSolidExample.latex 21math401/KBe21math401retCrossSectionSolidExample.org,21math401/KBe21math401retCrossSectionSolidExample.pdf 21math401/_KBe21math401retCrossSectionSolidExample.md,21math401/buildID.txt 21math401/recent_errors.md,21math401/recent_errors.txt backtrack.html,buildID.txt indxtable.html,recent_errors.html recent_errors.latex,recent_errors.md recent_errors.pdf,recent_errors.txt tags.html (automated compilation 14336)

21math401/_KBe21math401retCrossSectionSolidExample.md, after:

---
author: Albert Huang
date: 11 June 2021
title: "Final Project B: Volume of a Solid with Known Cross Section"
---

```{=org}
#+CONTEXT: 21math401
```
I chose to use Reigon B (bounded by x=0, y=sqrt(x), and x=9) and the
semicircle as my cross section. The integral to calculate the volume is
`\color{NavyBlue}`{=latex}the integral of
`\color{OliveGreen}`{=latex}the area of `\color{Melon}`{=latex}each
slice`\color{Black}`{=latex}.

$$\begin{aligned}
 &\textcolor{NavyBlue}{\int_{0}^{9}} \textcolor{OliveGreen}{\pi} \textcolor{Melon}{r_x} \textcolor{OliveGreen}{^2} \textcolor{NavyBlue}{dx}\\
 =&\textcolor{NavyBlue}{\int_{0}^{9}} \textcolor{OliveGreen}{\pi}  \textcolor{Melon}{\left(\frac{\sqrt{x}}{2}\right)}\textcolor{OliveGreen}{^2} \textcolor{NavyBlue}{dx}\\
 =& \frac{\pi}{4}  \int_{0}^{9} x dx\\
 =& \frac{\pi}{8} 9^2\\
 =& \boxed{\frac{81\pi}{8}}\\
\end{aligned}$$

This value is corroborated to four decimal points using the slice
generator. The final model can be
`\color{Blue}`{=latex}[downloaded](https://github.com/SkoolNotes/Taproot/blob/main/21math401/KBe21math401retCrossSectionSolidFinalB.scad)
`\color{Black}`{=latex} and viewed in
`\color{Blue}`{=latex}[OpenSCAD](https://openscad.org/downloads.html)
`\color{Black}`{=latex} or seen here:

![](KBe21math401retCrossSectionSolidFinalB.png)
